# Test Task for Laravel & Vue.js Devs

So the idea for this test task is just to evaluate your
workflow and make you more familiar to our software development
processes.


This repo actually contains a laravel project already integrated with admin panel theme on Vue.JS.

## Useful Links
1. Install [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/install/)
2. Install [Composer](https://getcomposer.org/download/) 
3. Install [Laravel](https://laravel.com/docs/8.x/installation) 
4. Install [Sass](https://sass-lang.com/install)
5. Theme Documentation [Vuexy](https://pixinvent.com/demo/vuexy-vuejs-admin-dashboard-template/documentation/)

## Project Setup
1. Clone it
2. Update .env with your DB credentials
3. Run `composer install` in project root dir 
4. Run `yarn` 
5. Run `yarn run hot`
6. Run `php artisan serve` without stopping yarn run hot (In a new command window since `php artisan serve` & `run hot` should be running at the same time to make development easier with **laravel mix**)

## Application Features

1. Make login screen functional with secure API's and store token according to
    theme workflow. 
2. After login show a page which contains a **datatable** (Included in
    theme) showing all users with their **image thumbnails** and a
    **status switch button** which should toggle user status in
    database. It should also show **edit Icon** on each row.
3.  User **add form** button should be at the top of data table.
    clicking it will **popup** **a form** containing Full
    Name,Email,Phone,Image,Password fields. All field's should be
    validated on server side via API as well as Client side and should
    show the error below that field. (Like if we get error from API
    **Invalid Email Address** , it should show below that email field) 
4.  Upon adding user, close the popup and show user in data table 
5.  Upon clicking **edit Icon** on **datatable** , edit popup will
    appear with already fill info to update user. Upon saving the info,
    close the popup and update the table
6.  Create a del button in **datatable** to delete that record 
7.  Create API to get/post/put all the saved data in this module with
    access token generated by login API by sep user which token
    shouldn't work with admin login 
    
    
## Application Expected flow

1. At first entry [http://127.0.0.1:8000/](http://127.0.0.1:8000/), it should point to **Login.vue** screen.
2. Login Screen **should properly validate** credentials and show responses from the API's (If email/password is incorrect or even if server is throwing any other errors .i.e. 500)
3. After login, if i visit [http://127.0.0.1:8000/](http://127.0.0.1:8000/) it **should** point us directly to listing screen instead of **Login**
4. Listing screen should match the details provided above in (Application Features) section.

## **Workflow** to follow 

1. Each Model of Application should contain its seeder.
2. Create a public git repo and push the initial project there in maser/main branch 
3. Create a branch for each feature like login with name **feature/login** and after finishing your login work, create a pull request for master (Don't merge it). Then create a new branch for **feature/users-listing** from **feature/login** and so on.... follow the same process for each feature 
4. Each commit should be well descriptive and should **not** contain much work in it 
5. Send the repo url when its done on [ishaq.hassan@pocketsystems.pk](mailto:ishaq.hassan@pocketsystems.pk)

## CRITICAL Mistake to avoid

Lets say, If i copy the listing page url and then clicked the logout button. Now am on login screen and should be considered as un-authenticated. If i use listing page url now, it should **Not Allow one to do that** .i.e. Redirecting to login screen.

### Goodluck!

